---
title: Predictors of Outcome With Cerebral Autoregulation Monitoring
date: 2021-03-06 19:38:41
permalink: /pages/50036b/
categories:
  - 血流技术
tags:
  - 
---
Predictors of Outcome With Cerebral Autoregulation Monitoring: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis
				
		
作者: Andres Zorrilla-Vaca

卷45期4页码695-704

期刊:Critical Care Medicine

日期:2017-04

DOI:10.1097/CCM.0000000000002251

摘要:
OBJECTIVE: To compare cerebral autoregulation indices as 
predictors of patient outcome and their dependence on duration of 
monitoring.
DATA SOURCES: Systematic literature search and meta-analysis using 
PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library from January 1990 to October 
2015.
STUDY SELECTION: We chose articles that assessed the association between
 cerebral autoregulation indices and dichotomized or continuous outcomes
 reported as standardized mean differences or correlation coefficients 
(R), respectively. Animal and validation studies were excluded.
DATA EXTRACTION: Two authors collected and assessed the data 
independently. The studies were grouped into two sets according to the 
type of analysis used to assess the relationship between cerebral 
autoregulation indices and predictors of outcome (standardized mean 
differences or R).
DATA SYNTHESIS: Thirty-three studies compared cerebral autoregulation 
indices and patient outcomes using standardized mean differences, and 20
 used Rs. The only data available for meta-analysis were from patients 
with traumatic brain injury or subarachnoid hemorrhage. Based on z score
 analysis, the best three cerebral autoregulation index predictors of 
mortality or Glasgow Outcome Scale for patients with traumatic brain 
injury were the pressure reactivity index, transcranial Doppler-derived 
mean velocity index based on cerebral perfusion pressure, and 
autoregulation reactivity index (z scores: 8.97, 6.01, 3.94, 
respectively). Mean velocity index based on arterial blood pressure did 
not reach statistical significance for predicting outcome measured as a 
continuous variable (p = 0.07) for patients with traumatic brain injury.
 For patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, autoregulation reactivity 
index was the only cerebral autoregulation index that predicted patient 
outcome measured with the Glasgow Outcome Scale as a continuous outcome 
(R = 0.82; p = 0.001; z score, 3.39). We found a significant correlation
 between the duration of monitoring and predictive value for mortality 
(R = 0.78; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Three cerebral autoregulation indices, pressure reactivity 
index, mean velocity index based on cerebral perfusion pressure, and 
autoregulation reactivity index were the best outcome predictors for 
patients with traumatic brain injury. For patients with subarachnoid 
hemorrhage, autoregulation reactivity index was the only cerebral 
autoregulation index predictor of Glasgow Outcome Scale. Continuous 
assessment of cerebral autoregulation predicted outcome better than 
intermittent monitoring.